---
layout: post
title:  "Visualizing Caribbean Literary Encounters: Progress Report 1"
date:   2021-11-29 17:34:14 -0400
categories: Report
---
Last week I began my descent into the rabbit hole of books written by Herbert George De Lisser. I began with a fiction book called “The White Witch of Rosehall” by Herbert George De Lisser. This week I was finally able to reach the end of the trail of what felt like never-ending books. I learnt that the book was first published in 1929 and the most current edition was in 2018. The main language of the book’s publications was English. I saw the book being translated into French with the title being “La sorcière blanche de Rosehall.” The most shocking language that found the book in was Japanese with its name being “ローズ館の白い魔女 /” (Rōzukan no shiroi majo) which in English means “White Witch of Rose Hall”. I realized that most of the editions were released by a publisher by the name of E.Benn. I also added the articles in the Planter’s Punch which were written by Herbert George De Lisser. Most of them were published between the years 1901 and 1950. Also, I quickly browsed over the writer’s other works like “Under the sun: a Jamaica comedy” which had a publication in 1927 and one in 1937. I did the same for “Jane’s Career a story of Jamaica” which was first published in 1914 and most recently published in 2021. Another book from the author is “Morgan’s Daughter” which was first published in 1953 and the most recent publication is 1985. I also found his book called, “Susan Proudleigh” which was first published in 1915 and most recently in 2021. I also looked into “The cup and the lip: a romance” which was a book published in 1956. “In Jamaica and Cuba” is a book that was published in 1910. I realized that most of Mr De Lisser’s work was fiction. 
This week in class I learnt about minimal computing which is computing done with insufficient resources. People who work in the field of Data Humanities use tools that are within their grasp and alter them to be able to accomplish the task that they have at hand. They do this as they might not be able to afford a high-end application that was created for that specific purpose, so they make their own that gets the job done.

We also learnt about wax which is a minimal computing project which is used to preserve information like old artefacts or other information that could be lost with time. When they are incorporated into a Wax site, the information is allowed to live longer and be easily accessed by the people who seek the information. Wax is also low-cost which makes it more accessible to people who are low in funding.
