---
layout: post
title:  "Visualizing Caribbean Literary Encounters: Progress Report 7"
date:   2022-03-22 17:34:14 -0400
categories: Report
---
The location of the publisher is very important when focusing on trends in literature observed in the Caribbean. I was allotted that column this week. It was a rather daunting task due to the level of importance of my input. With the use of the Publisher column, I had to locate the publishers. There were times when finding the location was as easy as clicking on a link present, while there were others that lead to a deep dive into not only the publisher but the book. At times I would have to find the publisher due to the record being empty. Furthermore, there were publishers that had several publishing locations, which made it difficult for me to choose a location. To rectify this I would search for the book alongside its author and publication date in WorldCat which often gave the location of the publisher. From this information, I could narrow down the city of the headquarters. 
Soon I began to feel rather overwhelmed at the volume of work that needed to be done. It felt like my efforts and hundreds of entries were nothing but a drop of rain in the sea. The more entries I filled, the more I saw needed to be filled. I subconsciously allowed this revelation to slow me down as instead of focussing on the task at hand I was worried about completing it in time (which I did not sadly). Also, I was more easily distracted and worn out not due to the work but due to my overthinking. Furthermore, I found myself procrastinating heavily which only increased the level of anxiety experienced while working on the task. If I had used the time and effort used to worry about completing my task I would have been a lot further. In the future, I will not repeat this error. I will remind myself that Rome was not built in a day, as well as any movement forward no matter how small the movement is, is movement. 
