---
layout: post
title:  "Visualizing Caribbean Literary Encounters: Progress Report 6"
date:   2022-02-22 17:34:14 -0400
categories: Report
---
My focus this week was steered towards working on my individual project. Due to the prior discovery of Nicola Toon’s heritage, I took it upon myself to dedicate my project to the study and documentation of her work as well as her achievements. The first step of crafting my project is to brainstorm exactly what I wanted to do as well as how I wanted to present the project. After much debating, I settled upon two main ideas; these being, creating a collection of all the publications of her books as well as the movies and the awards that she has received for her work respectively. This data will be used to create a timeline of her career. Also, I chose to determine the themes of her work as well as how her work affects her target audience. I also plan to include a short biography of the author. After this step was completed, I had to now gather my data. For the collection of the books, I resolved to use Goodreads to locate the different publications of the books and Zotero to act as my repository for my findings. Furthermore, I located Mrs Yoon’s website as well as interviews where she discusses her life and her books as this information would be integral to crafting the biography part of the project. Moreover, I created a draft of the layout for the project on Twine to ensure that it flows easily instead of being fragmented. I underestimated the number of pages and intersections there were between the data, this makes the transitions between the different storylines a bit difficult to manage. This draft was simply me jotting down all of my ideas, thus it needs to be revisited as I feel that I have overcomplicated the vision in my head.
